Data Center  
Model Ordinance 
August 2025 
Revised April 2026 
 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
Overview 
The following document is a model ordinance 
containing suggested language, including 
terminology and definitions commonly used in 
regulations for Data Centers.  
This model ordinance serves as a summary 
document of the various components that the York 
County Planning Commission (YCPC) believes are 
necessary for a municipality to consider when 
evaluating the impacts of these uses on their 
municipality. It should be the goal of the 
municipality to clearly articulate their expectations 
and requirements to any developers proposing 
these uses within their municipality, as well as to 
clearly address the concerns and interests of 
municipal residents. 
Municipalities are encouraged to alter the text of 
this model ordinance to best suit their municipality, 
as what works best for one municipality may not 
provide the same results in another. There are 
suggested sizes, distances, and thresholds 
throughout this model ordinance that are 
recommendations, and should be thoroughly 
considered by municipal officials to determine if 
these requirements make sense for their 
municipality. Additional context has been provided 
for some topics in sidebars throughout the 
document. 
As noted above, there are also sections of this 
model ordinance that, while important topics for 
consideration, 
◼ May not be topics that municipalities currently 
want to address 
◼ Are topics that municipalities have already 
addressed elsewhere in their ordinance 
◼ Can be viewed as forward-thinking 
Sections of this model ordinance that fall into 
these categories are presented in blue text. 
Municipalities are encouraged to review the 
language in these sections to determine if these 
are topics that make sense to address in their 
Zoning Ordinance currently. 
Municipalities protect and promote the safety, 
health, and morals of their communities by 
following and enforcing proper planning 
procedures, ensuring that development within their 
borders has been thoroughly considered well in 
advance of the submittal of plans for development. 
When considering where to permit and how to 
regulate more intense uses (such as the ones 
discussed in this model ordinance), municipalities 
should conduct assessments to evaluate the 
social, environmental, and economic impacts that 
these types of uses could have on their 
communities, and to determine where in their 
municipalities these types of uses can safely 
function. This type of assessment should be 
conducted by municipalities during the planning 
stage, when municipalities are considering adding 
language to their ordinances. Early assessment of 
the potential impacts of these more intense uses 
during the planning stage minimizes the potential 
for conflicts when a developer submits a land 
development proposal. 
As Data Center standards continue to evolve, 
municipalities will be challenged to keep up with 
them, let alone prepare in advance of any changes. 
This model ordinance is presented based on 
technology and knowledge available at this time. 
As always, municipal staff and officials are 
encouraged to reach out to YCPC staff if questions 
arise regarding any of the content found within this 
model ordinance.
 
  
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
SECTION 100. DEFINITIONS 
COMMUNITY NOISE EQUIVALENT LEVEL (CNEL) – The 24-hour A-weighted average sound level from midnight 
to midnight, obtained after the addition of 5 dB to sound levels occurring in the evening from 7 PM to 10 PM 
and after the addition of 10 dB to sound levels occurring in the night between 10 PM and 7 AM. 
DATA CENTER – A facility used primarily for the storage, management, processing, and transmission of digital 
data, which houses computer or network equipment, systems, servers, appliances and other associated 
components related to digital data operations. 
The facility may also include air handlers, power generators, water cooling and storage facilities, utility 
substations, and other associated utility infrastructure to support sustained operations at the Data Center. 
DATA CENTER ACCESSORY USE – Ancillary uses or structures secondary and incidental to a Data Center use, 
including but not limited to: administrative, logistical, fiber optic, storage, and security buildings or structures; 
sources of electrical power such as generators used to provide temporary power when the main source of 
power is interrupted; electrical substations; utility lines, domestic and non-contact cooling water and 
wastewater treatment facilities; water holding facilities; pump stations; water towers; environmental controls 
(air conditioning or cooling towers; fire suppression, and related equipment), and security features, provided 
such Data Center Accessory Uses/structures are located on the same tract or assemblage of adjacent parcels 
developed as a unified development with a Data Center.  The use shall not include energy generation systems 
used or intended to be used to supply power to the Data Center during normal operations. 
DATA CENTER ELECTRICAL SUBSTATION – A facility used for the transformation or transmission and/or 
switching of voltages to distribution voltages which switches circuits and distributes usable/consumable 
electric power, specifically for Data Center users on the same or adjacent site, or on a site immediately across 
a road right-of-way. 
DATA CENTER PRINCIPAL BUILDING – A building that contains the office and/or data storage functions of a 
Data Center. 
FOOTCANDLE – Enough light to saturate a one-foot square with one lumen of light. 
SENSITIVE RECEPTORS – Schools, preschools, day care centers, in-home daycares, health facilities such as 
hospitals, long term care facilities, retirement and nursing homes, community centers, places of worship, 
playgrounds, parks (excluding trails), campgrounds, prisons, dormitories, and any residence where such 
residence is not located on a parcel with an existing industrial, commercial, or unpermitted use as determined 
by the zoning officer. 
Page 1 of 14 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
SECTION 200. SPECIFIC USE CRITERIA 
Data Centers 
The following requirements shall apply to all Data Centers. In the event that any of the following regulations are 
found to be in conflict with regulations found elsewhere in the (MUNICIPALITY) Zoning Ordinance, the most 
restrictive regulations shall be applied, unless otherwise stated. 
A. Building Placement and Orientation 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
All principal and accessory structures associated with a Data Center shall be arranged, designed, 
and constructed to be harmonious and compatible with the site and with the surrounding 
properties. In general, Data Centers that visually approximate commercial office buildings are 
encouraged. 
Buildings shall be sited and oriented to: 
a. Minimize visual impacts of the bulk of the building when examined on a line-of-sight basis 
from adjacent public streets and Sensitive Receptor areas. 
b. Provide safe and convenient vehicular access to the site, including sufficient on-site queuing 
areas at security gates. 
c. Accommodate adequate parking. 
d. Minimize impacts to natural resources. 
Data Center campuses containing more than one building are encouraged to provide a variety in 
building size, massing, siting, and appearance by transitioning from smaller or lower buildings 
along street frontages to larger and taller structures on the interior of the site. Consideration of 
topography shall be given to avoid placement of larger, taller, or more massive buildings in a 
prominent location on the property or along a public street. 
B. Maximum Height 
The maximum building height for Data Centers shall be __ feet. 
C. Setbacks 
(1) 
All principal buildings, accessory structures, and Data Center 
Electric Utility Substations must be set back at least (150 – 
200) feet from all property lines. 
(2) 
Parking lots for Data Centers shall be set back at least __ feet 
from public road rights-of-way, and __ feet from all property 
lines. 
D. Parking Requirements 
A minimum of 1 parking space per employee on the largest shift is 
required, plus an additional 3 visitor spaces. 
E. Off Street Loading 
Building Height 
Municipalities  
should determine if 
incorporating language that 
allows for an increase in 
building height with increased 
building setbacks is a viable 
option for their municipality. 
A minimum of one loading space is required. Loading spaces/bays are only permitted to be located on one 
façade of the Data Center Principal Building.  
Page 2 of 14 
F. Noise/Vibration 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
CNEL 
a. The Community Noise Equivalent Level (CNEL) at the boundary of the property containing a 
Sensitive Receptor shall not exceed 60 dBA. 
b. The CNEL at the boundary of any developed property not containing a Sensitive Receptor shall 
not exceed 70 dBA. 
c. Sound that is produced for not more than a cumulative period of one (1) minute in any hour 
may exceed the standards above by up to ten (10) dBA. 
d. The maximum sound levels listed above do not apply to emergency alerts, emergency work to 
provide electricity, water, or other public utilities when public health or safety is involved, 
snow removal, or road repair. 
e. In addition to dBA levels, the developer will need to be able to show that C-weighted noise 
(dBC) and Octave Bands (dBZ) will also be maintained at acceptable levels. 
A noise reduction barrier or device may be required at the discretion of the zoning officer when it 
is inconclusive that noise level tests do not conform to 
acceptable noise levels. 
Noise 
The limitations of Section 200.F. herein shall not apply to any 
Sensitive Receptor that is established adjacent to the Data 
Center after the date of issuance of a certificate of completion 
or occupancy for the applicant’s operation. 
Sound Study 
a. Any proposal for a Data Center shall include pre- and 
post-construction sound studies which examine all 
exterior utility functions of the building (rooftop and 
ground-mounted) that produce sound. The sound studies 
shall identify compliance with Section 200.F. as 
applicable. The sound studies shall be conducted by an 
Institute of Noise Control Engineering (INCE) Board 
Certified Engineer and shall be subject to review and 
approval by an engineer with experience in noise control 
selected by the (MUNICIPALITY). 
Limits for dBA, dBC, and dBZ 
can vary based on the time of 
day, zoning district 
classification, and adjacent 
uses. Municipalities should 
consult with an acoustic 
engineer or similar certified 
professional to determine 
what standards are best for 
their municipality, and should 
consider updating noise 
standards for all uses, not just 
Data Centers. 
b. The pre-construction sound study shall be submitted with the (CONDITIONAL USE/SPECIAL 
EXCEPTION) application. The pre-construction sound study shall recommend the sound 
reducing materials or systems required to meet the aforesaid sound limits. 
c. The post-construction sound study shall be conducted prior to issuance of the certificate of 
occupancy. An as-built sound study may also be required thereafter by the (MUNICIPALITY) 
upon request. If it is determined by the as-built sound study that there is a violation of the 
aforesaid sound limits, the owner or occupant of the Data Center shall promptly remediate 
the violation to achieve compliance with the sound limits. 
G. Negative Impacts 
Any use or activity producing air, dust, smoke, glare, exhaust, heat, or humidity in any form shall be carried 
on in such a manner that it is not perceptible at or beyond the property line. 
Page 3 of 14 
H. Safety 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
The equipment used in any Data Center operation shall be housed in a metered, electrically grounded, and 
pre-engineered metal-encased structure with a fire rating designed to resist an internal electrical fire for at 
least 30 minutes. The containment space shall contain baffles that automatically close in the event of fire, 
independent of a possible electric system failure. 
Any Data Center use proposing battery storage or any other device or group of devices capable of storing 
energy in order to supply electrical energy at a later time, whether the energy is stored for use on-site or 
off-site, shall demonstrate compliance with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 855, 
Installation of Stationary Energy Storage Systems, or similar standards and must include fire suppression 
systems designed specifically for battery storage. 
I. 
J. 
Power 
Prior to approval of the certificate of completion or occupancy, the applicant shall provide written 
verification from the applicable service provider stating the following: 
(1) 
Adequate capacity is available on the applicable supply lines and substation to ensure that the 
capacity available to serve the other needs of the service area is consistent with the normal 
projected load growth envisioned by the provider, 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
Utility supply equipment and related electrical infrastructure are sufficiently sized and can safely 
accommodate the proposed use, 
Any system designed for cooling and operation of the facility (electricity, water, or other means) 
will be adequate and will not negatively impact the surrounding region, 
The energy storage capacity of the system used (if applicable) will be defined, 
Efforts will be made to maximize the use of renewable or clean energy, 
The use will not cause electrical interference or fluctuations in line voltage on and off the 
operating premises, and 
Prior to approval of the certification of completion or occupancy, the applicant shall provide the 
municipality with written verification that the electrical work has passed a third-party final 
inspection. 
Lighting 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
Horizontal Surfaces 
For the lighting of predominantly horizontal surfaces, such as, but not limited to, parking areas, 
roadways, vehicular and pedestrian passage areas, loading docks, building entrances, sidewalks, 
bicycle paths, and site entrances, luminaires shall be aimed down, and shall meet Illuminating 
Engineering Society of North America (IESNA) full cut-off/fully shielded criteria. 
Non-Horizontal Surfaces 
For the lighting of predominantly non-horizontal surfaces, such as, but not limited to, facades, 
landscaping, and signs, luminaires shall be shielded and shall be installed and aimed to not 
project their output into the windows of neighboring residences, adjacent uses, past the object 
being illuminated, skyward, or onto a public roadway. 
Adjacent Residential Uses 
The illumination projected onto a residential use shall at no time exceed 0.1 footcandle, 
measured line-of-sight and from any point on the receiving residential property.  
Page 4 of 14 
(4) 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
Adjacent Non-Residential Uses 
The illumination projected from any property onto a non
residential use shall at no time exceed 0.5 initial footcandle, 
measured line-of-sight from any point on the receiving property.  
(5) 
(6) 
Glare 
Vegetation screens shall not be employed to serve as the primary 
means for controlling glare. Rather, glare control shall be 
achieved by using means such as cutoff luminaires, shields and 
baffles, and appropriate application of luminaire mounting height, 
wattage, aiming angle, and luminaire placement. 
LED Lights 
Lighting 
Adjacent to Non
Residential Uses 
Ordinances YCPC 
reviewed for sample 
language have shown 
light trespass 
maximums from 0.1 to 
2.0 footcandles. 
LED light sources shall have a correlated color temperature that does not exceed 3000K. 
(7) 
(8) 
Luminaires 
Luminaires shall not be mounted more than 20 feet above the finished grade of the surface being 
illuminated. No pole-mounted lighting on the roof shall be permitted. 
Lighting After Hours 
Lighting for parking areas and vehicular traffic ways shall be automatically extinguished nightly 
within ½ hour of the close of the facility. On/off control shall be by an astronomic programmable 
controller with battery or capacitor power-outage reset. When after-hours site safety/security 
lighting is proposed, such lighting shall not exceed 25% of the number of fixtures required or 
permitted for illumination during regular business hours. Where there is reduced but continued 
onsite activity throughout the night that requires site-wide even illumination, the use of dimming 
circuitry to lower illumination levels by at least 50% after 11 PM or after regular business hours, or 
the use of motion sensor control, shall be permitted. 
K. Perimeter Fencing/Security 
Fences shall not exceed __ feet in height above ground and shall be of high-quality design and materials. 
L. Power Lines and Data Center Electric Utility Substations 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
Data Center Electric Utility Substations must include year-round opaque landscaping or a screen 
wall a minimum of __ feet in height to minimize visual impact. 
Electric Utility Substations on the same property as the Data Center they serve must be located on 
the side or rear of a Data Center Principal Building so they are screened from public view and 
must not be located in a required front yard. On-site substations do not require a buffer or 
screening between the Data Center Principal Building and the substation.  
Burying power lines serving the property is strongly encouraged. On-site power lines of 34.5 kV 
and below must be buried. 
The Data Center Electric Utility Substation shall be subject to applicable zoning district setback 
requirements. Setbacks shall be measured from the edge of the compound containing the 
substation to the property boundary of the lot it occupies.  
Page 5 of 14 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
M. Emergency Contact Information 
Each Data Center operation shall provide 24-hour emergency contact signage visible at the access 
entrance. Signs shall include the company name (if applicable), the owner/representative's name, the 
telephone number, and the corresponding local power company's name and telephone number. 
N. Sensitive Receptors 
Unless physically impossible, energy substations, generators, HVAC units, and other noise and odor 
creators shall be oriented away from abutting Sensitive Receptors. Screening as described in Section 
200.O., “Buffer Yards and Screening” shall be provided. When making feasibility decisions, the 
(MUNICIPALITY) must consider existing laws and regulations and balance public safety with the site 
development’s potential impacts on nearby Sensitive Receptors. 
O. Buffer Yards and Screening 
All Data Center operations shall provide buffer yards and screening along all property boundary lines, 
except for areas of ingress and egress into the site. 
(1) 
(2) 
Service Areas - Loading bays, refuse collection areas, and service entrances shall be screened 
from view from existing or planned public roads, Sensitive Receptors, and residential zoning 
districts. Screening may include year-round landscaping or a screen wall of an appropriate height 
to mitigate visual impacts as determined by a line-of-sight study submitted by the applicant. 
Mechanical/Electrical Equipment Screening 
a. Ground-Mounted 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
Ground-mounted equipment adjacent to and serving the Data Center Principal Building 
shall be completely screened behind an opaque wall or fence. When the equipment is 
located between buildings, a combination of walls and gates may be used at the 
openings between buildings. 
When in or adjacent to an industrial use or zoning district, ground-mounted equipment 
screening is only required from any existing or planned public road. 
Ground-mounted equipment is prohibited in any required setback. 
b. Roof-Top 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
All roof-top-mounted equipment shall be screened by a parapet wall, equipment 
penthouse, or visually solid screen on all four sides that is constructed of materials 
complementary to those used in the exterior construction of the Data Center Principal 
Building. This shall be accomplished by setting the penthouse or screened area back 
from the façade of the building such that the top of the penthouse or screen is below a 
45-degree line drawn from the top of the parapet. Roof-top equipment to be screened 
includes, but is not limited to, the following: cooling, ventilation, and power supply 
machinery. 
Roof-top equipment that is visible above the parapet wall shall be set back from the 
exterior or parapet wall a distance no less than the height of said equipment. 
Roof-top equipment may exceed the applicable maximum district building height when 
completely screened pursuant to this ordinance. 
iv. Roof-top equipment may occupy up to a maximum of __% of the roof area when screened 
per this ordinance and, when combined with the height of the Data Center building, does 
not exceed the maximum building height requirement. 
Page 6 of 14 
(3) 
Buffering 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
a. Data Center sites abutting Sensitive Receptors or 
collector/arterial roads must include an enhanced buffer yard 
with required plantings located on an earthen berm with a grade 
no steeper than 2:1. The minimum height of the berm abutting 
Sensitive Receptors is __ feet, and abutting collector/arterial 
roads is __ feet. 
i. 
ii. 
Where the combined footprint of the principal structure or 
structures is less than 100,000 square feet: 
a. A minimum 100-foot buffer yard shall be provided along 
the entire length of any public street frontage of any 
property upon which the Data Center is located and 
along any property line which abuts or is within 500 feet 
of an existing residential property line or zone, school, 
daycare center, hospital, place of worship, designated 
park, or public open space. 
b. A minimum 50-foot buffer yard shall be provided along 
any property line adjacent to a non-residential use or 
zone. 
Where the combined footprint of the principal structure or 
structures is between 100,000 square feet and 250,000 
square feet: 
Buffer Yards 
and Screening 
Municipalities often 
already have buffer 
yard and screening 
requirements in place 
elsewhere in their 
zoning ordinance or 
SALDO.  
If your municipality 
already has buffer 
yard and screening 
requirements, 
consider directing 
readers to those 
sections instead of 
duplicating 
requirements. If 
screening above and 
beyond what already 
is in place is required, 
this would be the 
section in which to 
address it. 
a. A minimum 150-foot buffer yard shall be provided along 
the entire length of any public street frontage of any 
property upon which the Data Center is located and 
along any property line which abuts or is within 500 feet of an existing residential 
property line or zone, school, daycare center, hospital, place of worship, designated 
park, or public open space. 
b. A minimum 50-foot buffer yard shall be provided along all other property lines. 
iii. 
Where the combined footprint of the principal structure or structures exceeds 250,000 
square feet: 
a. A minimum 300-foot buffer yard shall be provided along the entire length of any 
public street frontage of any property upon which the Data Center is located and 
along any property line which abuts or is within 500 feet of an existing residential 
property line or zone, school, daycare center, hospital, place of worship, designated 
park, or public open space. 
b. A minimum 50-foot buffer yard shall be provided along all other property lines. 
iv. Utilities should be located outside of buffer yards to the maximum extent feasible to 
maintain a cohesive buffer yard, protect landscaping, and preserve open space. Utilities 
should be co-located when feasible to minimize the number of utility crossings through 
the required buffer yard, particularly when such crossings cannot be avoided. 
v. 
Use of existing vegetation for landscaping and screening is strongly encouraged and may 
be substituted for new berms and plantings if approved by the (MUNICIPAL GOVERNING 
BODY). 
Page 7 of 14 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
vi. The required number of plant units shall be calculated in accordance with other 
municipal screening requirements. 
vii. Buffer yards along roadways shall be measured from the street right-of-way line. 
viii. Where a lot line drainage or utility easement is required, the buffer yard shall be 
measured from the inside edge of the easement. 
ix. 
x. 
xi. 
Buffer yards shall not include environmental encumbrances such as, but not limited to, 
wetlands, wetland transition areas, riparian buffers, and flood hazard areas as may be 
imposed by outside agencies. 
The buffer yard shall include a dense landscape buffer consisting of the following: 
a. One (1) large evergreen tree per 25 linear feet of buffer. The size of large evergreen 
trees shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height at the time of planting. 
Narrow/upright evergreen species may also be used within buffers at a ratio of 3:1. 
No more than 25% of the total required large evergreen species can be substituted 
with narrow/upright species. 
b. One (1) canopy (shade) tree per 75 linear feet of buffer. The size of canopy (shade) 
trees shall be a minimum of 2 ½ inch caliper at the time of planting. 
c. One (1) ornamental/flowering tree per 50 linear feet of buffer. The size of 
ornamental/flowering trees shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height for multi
stemmed varieties, or 2 ½ inch caliper at the time of planting for single-stemmed 
varieties. 
d. Five (5) shrubs per 25 linear feet of buffer. Shrubs shall be fully branched and a 
minimum of three (3) feet in height at the time of planting. Shrubs shall be a 
combination of evergreen and deciduous species, with a minimum of 50% evergreen. 
The landscape buffer shall be located along the outer edge of the buffer yard. 
xii. Plant material within buffer plantings shall meet the following requirements: 
a. Be resistant to diesel exhaust. 
b. Not identified on the most current Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and 
Natural Resources (DCNR) invasive species or watch lists. 
c. Be hardy within United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) hardiness Zones 6 
and 7. 
d. Shall be planted on the top and the exterior of any berm in order to provide effective 
screening. 
e. Shall be arranged in groupings to allow for ease of maintenance and to provide a 
natural appearance. 
f. 
Shall provide a diversity in plant species, such that no one species accounts for more 
than 25% of each plant type. 
g. The plantings shall be arranged to provide a complete visual screen of the property at 
least 12 feet in height, measured in addition to the height of any required berm, 
within three (3) years. 
xiii. The buffer yard may be located within the required building setback lines. No impervious 
surface is permitted within the buffer yard aside from access drives, sidewalks, and 
associated improvements.  
Page 8 of 14 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
P. Environmental and Community Impact Analysis 
Prior to the commencement of the (CONDITIONAL USE/SPECIAL EXCEPTION) hearing, the applicant shall 
provide an environmental and community impact analysis. The environmental and community impact 
analysis shall include: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
A narrative description prepared by a professional engineer, ecologist, environmental planner or 
other qualified individual, of the proposed nature of the on-site activities and operations, including 
the market area served by the facility, the hours of operation of the facility, the total number of 
employees on each shift, the times, frequencies, and types of vehicle trips generated, the types of 
materials stored and the duration period of storage of materials, and the relationship to other 
projects or proposals. The description shall focus on the elements of the environment most likely 
to be affected as well as potential regional effects and ecological interrelationships. 
A site plan of the property indicating the location of proposed improvements, flood plains, 
wetlands, waters of the Commonwealth, and cultural and historic resources on the property and 
within 500 feet of the boundaries of the property, and the potential for public nuisance to 
residents resulting from operations. 
Evidence that the disposal of materials will be accomplished in a 
manner that complies with state and federal regulations. 
An evaluation of the potential impacts of the proposed use, both 
positive and negative, upon: 
a. Emergency services and fire protection, 
b. Water supply, 
c. Sewage disposal, 
d. Solid waste disposal, 
e. School facilities and school district budget, 
f. 
Municipal revenues and expenses, and 
g. Stormwater. 
Any environmental impacts that are likely to be generated (i.e.., 
odor, noise, smoke, dust, litter, glare, heat islands, vibration, 
electrical disturbance, wastewater, stormwater, solid waste, etc.) 
and specific measures employed to mitigate or eliminate any 
negative impacts. The applicant shall further furnish evidence 
that the impacts generated by the proposed use fall within 
acceptable levels, as regulated by applicable laws and 
ordinances. 
Water Supply 
Data Centers often use 
water to assist with 
equipment cooling and 
humidity maintenance 
within their operations.  
Water consumption can 
vary based on the size of 
the project. It is 
important for 
municipalities to require 
proposed Data Center 
development to clearly 
articulate water needs, 
use, availability, 
recycling and/or release 
procedures, and local 
and regional impacts on 
water resources. 
The applicant shall identify all stationary and mobile sources of particulate matter (PM2.5) volatile 
organic compounds, and nitrogen oxides at the site.  The applicant shall specify best management 
practices for preventing and reducing the concentration of air polluting emissions at the site. 
(7) 
Consistency with the (MUNICIPALITY) and county comprehensive plan. The applicant shall submit 
an assessment report of the impact of the proposed use on the goals of the respective plans. 
Where the proposed use conflicts with the comprehensive plan, the analysis report shall identify 
mitigation measures that may be undertaken to offset any degradation, diminution, or depletion 
of public natural resources. 
Page 9 of 14 
(8) 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
Critical impact areas. In addition to the above, plans should include any area, condition, or feature 
that is environmentally sensitive or that, if disturbed during construction, would have an adverse 
impact on the environment. 
a. Critical impact areas include, but are not limited to, floodplains, riparian buffers, streams, 
wetlands, slopes greater than 15%, highly acidic or highly erodible soils, hydric soils, 
hydrologic soil groups, areas of high-water table, and mature stands of native vegetation and 
aquifer recharge and discharge areas. 
b. A statement of impact upon critical areas and of adverse impacts that cannot be avoided is 
required to be submitted with the analysis, along with proposed environmental protection 
measures, procedures, and schedules to minimize damage to critical impact areas during and 
after construction. 
(9) 
If modular, factory-built construction is proposed, details of its construction shall be provided to 
the (MUNICIPALITY) for review/approval. 
Q. Building Colors/Materials 
External building materials and colors should reflect the character of the surrounding environment and 
structures. 
R. Emergency Responders 
The applicant shall coordinate with the (MUNICIPALITY) emergency management coordinator to ensure 
there is adequate radio coverage for emergency responders within the building based upon the existing 
coverage levels of the (MUNICIPALITY) Public Safety Radio Communications System at the exterior of the 
building, and shall install enhancement systems as needed to meet compliance. 
(1) 
(2) 
The applicant shall submit an Emergency Response Plan (ERP) prepared by a qualified 
professional. The ERP shall: 
a. Be reviewed by the local fire department and emergency management services as part of the 
land development process; 
b. Include detailed procedures for fire suppression, containment, ventilation, and evacuation; 
c. Include an evaluation of the adequacy of the local fire department equipment; 
d. Include an evaluation of the access roads and hydrant locations within the site to ensure 
suitable access for emergency equipment within the site; 
e. Ensure that all first responders receive adequate training specific to the installed system; 
f. 
Include provisions for annual fire safety inspections demonstrating compliance with fire safety 
standards to be performed by a qualified professional on behalf of the Data Center. 
Each Data Center operation shall provide 24-hour emergency contact signage visible at the 
access entrance. Signs shall include the company name (if applicable), the 
owner/representative's name, the telephone number, and the corresponding local power 
company's name and telephone number. 
S. Decommissioning 
Data Centers are recognized as a distinct use that warrants special consideration due to their limited 
operational lifespans and the potential for residual materials or infrastructure that may require specialized 
removal or remediation at the end of use. Given the rapid evolution of data storage and processing 
technologies, applicants shall submit a decommissioning plan for removal of obsolete equipment and site 
Page 10 of 14 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
restoration at the end of the facility’s operational life. Such plan shall address dismantling and removal of 
all equipment and appurtenances related thereto, including but not limited to special cabling and electrical 
components, electronic equipment, special cooling equipment, special power generation, batteries and 
other associated facilities from the property to a condition where the building and property may be reused 
for another purpose. These provisions are intended to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses, 
maintain long-term land use flexibility, and promote the orderly reuse or redevelopment of the property.  
When the operation of the Data Center ceases, the recycling or responsible disposal of decommissioned 
hardware and materials shall be prioritized to reduce environmental impact. The operator shall partner 
with certified E-waste recycling facilities to ensure the proper handling and recycling of electronic 
components. 
Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a Data Center, the owner shall provide financial security, 
in the form and amount of a bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or other financial security acceptable to the 
(MUNICIPALITY), to secure the expense of decommissioning, dismantling, removing, and disposal of the 
Data Center specific components and equipment, in the amount of 110% of the estimated 
decommissioning cost minus the salvageable value of the Data Center. The (MUNICIPALITY) reserves the 
right to review once every five (5) years an engineer’s new estimate of probable cost of decommissioning, 
which shall be submitted for approval in the same manner as the initial submission. The bond, letter of 
credit, or other financial security acceptable to the (MUNICIPALITY) shall be increased or decreased, as 
appropriate, upon a finding by the (MUNICIPAL GOVERNING BODY) that the new estimate appropriately 
addresses the probable cost of decommissioning.  The owner of the Data Center shall pay for all fees 
associated with the review and approval of each such decommissioning cost estimate by the 
(MUNICIPALITY) Engineer. 
T. Green Building Techniques 
Data Centers are encouraged to implement low-impact development practices in site design and energy 
efficiency, such as, but not limited to, the following: 
(1) 
Site Design 
a. Select sites that avoid sensitive lands such as wetlands, floodplains, and steep slopes 
b. Minimize land disturbance 
c. Maximize tree preservation 
d. Minimize impervious surfaces 
e. Minimize potential nuisance impacts (noise, glare, vibration, etc.) on adjacent properties, 
public roadways, and the vicinity 
(2) 
Energy/Resource Efficiency 
a. Orient buildings to take advantage of passive cooling and daylight opportunities 
b. Utilize alternative energy sources (solar, wind, hydro, etc.) as much as possible 
c. Provide an energy storage system to monitor and regulate usage of alternative energy for 
usage during off-peak hours 
d. Utilize reclaimed water for cooling, if available, promoting its use to regulate cooling output in 
real-time on workload demands 
e. Incorporate waste heat recovery systems for use on or off-site, and set measurable goals for 
its implementation 
f. 
Encourage systems that limit the use of finite natural resources and their disposal 
Page 11 of 14 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
g. Encourage fuel storage that limits impacts on the environment from potential spills 
h. Install water-efficient landscape materials 
i. 
Utilize LED exterior/interior lighting 
U. LEED Certification 
The implementation of energy management best practices and carbon reduction techniques such as, but 
not limited to, those promoted through the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings Initiative and U.S. 
Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Certification system is 
strongly encouraged. 
V. Woodland Disturbance 
Woodland disturbance, including alteration or removal of any hedgerows, shall be minimized. No portions 
of tree masses, tree lines, hedgerows, or individual freestanding trees measuring six (6) inches or greater 
in diameter at breast height (DBH) shall be removed unless it is clearly necessary to effectuate the 
proposed development. In no case shall more than 50% of any existing tree masses, tree lines, hedgerows, 
or individual freestanding trees with six (6)-inch or greater DBH be removed. For purposes of this 
subsection, a woodland is defined as a tree mass or plant community in which tree species are dominant 
or codominant and the branches of the trees form a complete, or nearly complete, aerial canopy. Any area, 
grove, or stand of mature or largely mature trees (i.e., six (6)-inch or greater DBH) covering an area of .25 
of an acre or more, or consisting of more than 50 individual trees six (6) inches or greater DBH, shall be 
considered a woodland. 
W. Threatened and Endangered Species 
(1) 
(2) 
PNDI 
A Pennsylvania Natural Heritage Program study (PNDI Receipt) dated within two (2) years of the 
submission of an application for conditional use/special exception or subdivision and land 
development, whichever is first, as well as any state agency clearance letters required thereby, 
shall be provided to the municipality. 
Compliance 
The applicant shall comply with all measures directed by the clearance letters to avoid, minimize, 
or mitigate impacts to endangered, threatened, and special concern species and their habitat. 
X. Riparian Forest Buffer Area 
Data Centers subject to the requirements of this Section must satisfy the stricter of the requirements of 
this Section, or of 25 Pa. Code 102.14, Riparian Buffer Requirements. 
(1) 
(2) 
For purposes of this Section, a riparian buffer is an area of permanent vegetation along a 
waterway that is left undisturbed to allow for the natural succession of native vegetation. A 
riparian forest buffer is a type of riparian buffer that consists predominantly of native trees, 
shrubs, and forbs, providing at least 60% uniform canopy cover. 
Where the project site contains, is along, or is within 150 feet of a perennial or intermittent river, 
stream, creek, lake, wetland, floodplain, pond, or reservoir, whether natural or artificial, the use 
will be subject to the requirements of this Section and shall, in accordance with the requirements 
of this subsection, do one of the following: 
a. Protect an existing riparian forest buffer 
b. Convert an existing riparian buffer to a riparian forest buffer 
Page 12 of 14 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
c. Establish a new riparian forest buffer 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
(10) 
Where a riparian forest buffer exists, it shall be left intact to meet the width requirements in 
subsections (6) and (7). An existing riparian forest buffer need not be altered to establish 
individual Zones 1 and 2 under subsection (9). 
Riparian buffers that consist predominantly of native woody vegetation that do not satisfy the 
composition requirements for a riparian forest buffer in subsection (1) or the width requirements 
in subsections (6) and (7) shall be enhanced or widened, or both, by additional plantings in open 
spaces around existing native trees and shrubs to provide at least 60% uniform canopy cover for 
the required width and shall be composed of zones in accordance with subsection (9). 
On sites without native woody vegetation, a riparian forest buffer providing at least 60% uniform 
canopy cover shall be established to meet the width requirements in subsections (6) and (7) and 
be composed of zones in accordance with subsection (9). 
The width of the riparian forest buffer shall be a minimum of 100 feet on each side of the water 
body as measured from the top of the bank. The boundary of the buffer shall follow the natural 
streambank or shoreline. 
Measured within the 100-foot buffer, the following additional distances shall be added to the 
minimum width of the riparian forest buffer: 
a. 10 feet if the average slope is 10-15%, 
b. 20 feet if the average slope is 16-17%, 
c. 30 feet if the average slope is 18-20%, 
d. 50 feet if the average slope is 21-23%, 
e. 60 feet if the average slope is 24-25%, or 
f. 
70 feet if the average slope exceeds 25%. 
In the case of the presence of a nontidal wetland or vernal pond wholly or partially within the 
riparian buffer area, an additional 25 feet shall be added to the width of the riparian forest buffer 
area for that portion of the buffer area along the wetland, floodplain, or pond. 
A new riparian forest buffer or a converted riparian forest buffer shall be composed of zones as 
follows: 
a. Zone 1 shall begin at the top of the streambank or normal pool elevation of a lake, pond, or 
reservoir and occupy a strip of land 50 feet in width, measured horizontally on a line 
perpendicular from the top of the streambank or normal pool elevation of a lake, pond, or 
reservoir. Predominant vegetation must be composed of a variety of native riparian tree 
species identified in Appendix C.1 of the PA Department of Environmental Protection 
Guidance Document 394-5600-001, entitled Riparian Forest Buffer Guidance. 
b. Zone 2 shall begin at the landward edge of Zone 1 and occupy an additional strip of land a 
minimum of 50 feet in width, measured horizontally on a line perpendicular from the top of 
the streambank or normal pool elevation of a lake, pond, or reservoir. Predominant 
vegetation must be composed of a variety of native riparian trees and small tree/shrub 
species identified in Appendix C.1 of the PA Department of Environmental Protection 
Guidance Document, 394-5600-001, entitled Riparian Forest Buffer Guidance. 
No earth disturbance, land development, or storing or stockpiling of materials shall occur within 
the riparian forest buffer area. 
Page 13 of 14 
(11) 
DATA CENTER MODEL ORDINANCE 
In the management of riparian buffers, noxious weeds and invasive species shall be removed or 
controlled to the greatest extent possible. 
(12) 
(13) 
Existing, converted, and newly established riparian buffers, including access easements, must be 
protected in perpetuity through deed description, conservation easement, permit conditions, or 
any other mechanisms that ensure the long-term functioning and integrity of the riparian buffer. 
The riparian buffer shall be designated on the final subdivision and/or land development plan. 
Page 14 of 14